BML/2017-02-04-arxiv.md, before:

---
title: Variational Inference Papers
author: Govind
---


These papers can be found using [this](https://arxiv.org/find/grp_stat,grp_cs/1/AND+ti:+Variational+ti:+Inference/0/1/0/2000,2001,2002,2003,2004,2005,2006,2007,2008,2009,2010,2011,2012,2013,2014,2015,2016,2017/0/1?skip=100&query_id=0d88e2c41b952d6a) search link.


1. [Variational Bayesian Inference with Stochastic Search](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6430)
2. [Nonparametric Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4665)
3. [Robust Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09226)
4. [Variational Inference with a Stochastic Kinetic Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02181)
5. [Operator Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09033)
6. [Mean-Field Variational Inference for Gradient Matching](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.06949)
7. [Rejection Sampling Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.05683)
8. [Variational Inference with Hamiltonian Monte Carlo](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.05683)
9. [Stein Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04471)
10. [Stochastic Variational Inference without messages](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.03817)
11. [Extreme Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.09499)
12. [Overdispersed Black Box Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01140)
13. [Automatic Differentiation Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.00788)
14. [Variational Inference for online anomaly detection](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07109)
15. [Variational Inference for Monte Carlo objectives](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.06725)
16. [Renyi Divergence Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.02311)
17. [Variational Inference A review for statisticians](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00670)
18. [Robust Inference with Variational Bayes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02578)
19. [Stochastic Collapsed Variational Inference for Sequential Data](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.01666)
20. [Faster Stochastic Variational Inference using Proximal Gradient Methods](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.00146)
21. [Streaming, Distributed Variational Inference for Bayesian Nonparametrics](https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.09161)
22. [Fast Second Order Stochastic Backpropogation for Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.02866)
23. [On convergence of Stochastic Variational Inference in Bayesian Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1507.04505)
24. [Variational Gaussian Copula Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.05860)
25. [Automatic Variational Inference in Stan](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03431)
26. [Copula Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03159)
27. [Trust region method for Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.07649)
28. [Variational Inference with normalizing flows](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05770)
29. [Early Stopping is Nonparametric Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01344)
30. [Streaming Variational Inference for Bayesin Nonparametric Mixture Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0694)
31. [Beta Process non-negative matrix factorization with Stochastic Mean-field Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.1804)
32. [Stochastic Variational Inference for Hidden Markov Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.1670)
33. [Markov Chain Monte Carlo and Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6460)
34. [Smoothed Gradient for Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.3650)
35. [Structured Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4114)
36. [Black Box Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1401.0118)
37. [Stochastic Collapsed Variational Bayesian Inference for LDA](https://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2452)
38. [Generalized Mean Field algorithm for Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2512)
39. [Variational Inference in Nonconjugate Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4360)
40. [Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7051)



Non Arxiv Papers : 

1. [Doubly Stochastic Variational Bayes for non-conjugate Inference](http://www.jmlr.org/proceedings/papers/v32/titsias14.pdf)
2. [Fast Variational Inference in the conjugate exponential family](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4766-fast-variational-inference-in-the-conjugate-exponential-family)

Commit message:

Updated paper list with Google Scholar Links

BML/2017-02-04-arxiv.md, after:

---
title: Variational Inference Papers
author: Govind
---


These papers can be found using [this](https://arxiv.org/find/grp_stat,grp_cs/1/AND+ti:+Variational+ti:+Inference/0/1/0/2000,2001,2002,2003,2004,2005,2006,2007,2008,2009,2010,2011,2012,2013,2014,2015,2016,2017/0/1?skip=100&query_id=0d88e2c41b952d6a) link.

Updated papers can be found using this [link](https://scholar.google.co.in/scholar?cites=12946385296565037740&as_sdt=2005&sciodt=0,5&hl=en)

1. [Variational Bayesian Inference with Stochastic Search](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.6430)
2. [Nonparametric Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4665)
3. [Robust Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09226)
4. [Variational Inference with a Stochastic Kinetic Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02181)
5. [Operator Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09033)
6. [Mean-Field Variational Inference for Gradient Matching](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.06949)
7. [Rejection Sampling Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.05683)
8. [Variational Inference with Hamiltonian Monte Carlo](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.05683)
9. [Stein Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04471)
10. [Stochastic Variational Inference without messages](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.03817)
11. [Extreme Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.09499)
12. [Overdispersed Black Box Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01140)
13. [Automatic Differentiation Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.00788)
14. [Variational Inference for online anomaly detection](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07109)
15. [Variational Inference for Monte Carlo objectives](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.06725)
16. [Renyi Divergence Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.02311)
17. [Variational Inference A review for statisticians](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00670)
18. [Robust Inference with Variational Bayes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.02578)
19. [Stochastic Collapsed Variational Inference for Sequential Data](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.01666)
20. [Faster Stochastic Variational Inference using Proximal Gradient Methods](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.00146)
21. [Streaming, Distributed Variational Inference for Bayesian Nonparametrics](https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.09161)
22. [Fast Second Order Stochastic Backpropogation for Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.02866)
23. [On convergence of Stochastic Variational Inference in Bayesian Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1507.04505)
24. [Variational Gaussian Copula Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.05860)
25. [Automatic Variational Inference in Stan](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03431)
26. [Copula Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03159)
27. [Trust region method for Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.07649)
28. [Variational Inference with normalizing flows](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.05770)
29. [Early Stopping is Nonparametric Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01344)
30. [Streaming Variational Inference for Bayesin Nonparametric Mixture Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.0694)
31. [Beta Process non-negative matrix factorization with Stochastic Mean-field Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.1804)
32. [Stochastic Variational Inference for Hidden Markov Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.1670)
33. [Markov Chain Monte Carlo and Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.6460)
34. [Smoothed Gradient for Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.3650)
35. [Structured Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4114)
36. [Black Box Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1401.0118)
37. [Stochastic Collapsed Variational Bayesian Inference for LDA](https://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2452)
38. [Generalized Mean Field algorithm for Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2512)
39. [Variational Inference in Nonconjugate Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.4360)
40. [Stochastic Variational Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.7051)
41. [Stochastic Backpropagation and Approximate Inference in Deep Generative Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1401.4082)
42. [Variational Gaussian Process](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06499)

Non Arxiv Papers : 

1. [Doubly Stochastic Variational Bayes for non-conjugate Inference](http://www.jmlr.org/proceedings/papers/v32/titsias14.pdf)
2. [Fast Variational Inference in the conjugate exponential family](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4766-fast-variational-inference-in-the-conjugate-exponential-family)

3. [Scalable Inference of Overlapping Communities](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4573-scalable-inference-of-overlapping-communities)
4. [Distributed Vartiational Inference in Sparse GP Regression and Latent Variable
Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5593-distributed-variational-inference-in-sparse-gaussian-process-regression-and-latent-variable-models)
5. [Adaptive Learning Rate for Stochastic Variational Inference](http://www.jmlr.org/proceedings/papers/v28/ranganath13.pdf)
6. [Memoized Online Variational Inference for Dirichlet Process Mixture Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4969-memoized-online-variational-inference-for-dirichlet-process-mixture-models)
7. [Truncation-free Online Variational Inference for Bayesian Nonparametric Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4534-truncation-free-online-variational-inference-for-bayesian-nonparametric-models)
8. [Variational Gaussian Process State-Space Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5375-variational-gaussian-process-state-space-models)
9. [Distributed Bayesian Posterior Sampling via Moment Sharing](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5596-spectral-methods-for-indian-buffet-process-inference.pdf)
10. [Stochastic Variational Inference for Bayesian Time Series Models](http://www.jmlr.org/proceedings/papers/v32/johnson14.pdf)
11. [Scalable and Robust Bayesian Inference via the Median Posterior](http://www.jmlr.org/proceedings/papers/v32/minsker14.pdf)
12. [Improved Variational Inference with Inverse Autoregressive Flow](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6581-improving-variational-autoencoders-with-inverse-autoregressive-flow.pdf)
